We still played the Corps game, you know, but when
you got out there, it was loosened up, and most of
the upperclassmen that came out there were pretty
good guys, and they were wanting to have fun. And
Bonfire was almost entirely done by the Corps, was
it? Just about. There was Walton Hall and Hart
Hall. There were some of the civilians, but most of
it was organized and run by the Corps. Then a senior
ring. Why is an Aggie ring so special?
It's probably as hard to explain as the Aggie
spirit, but I know in my case, everybody looked
forward. The interesting thing back then is you
didn't wear a senior ring, and we called it a senior
ring. You didn't wear it unless you were a senior.
You might have had a lot of hours. You could get it as
a junior, but you did not wear your ring, and now you
see... lots of juniors that'll have rings that'll
be wearing them but that was another one of those
traditions in the corps you better be wearing
boots if you're wearing a senior ring the way i
remember it all right i'm confused you couldn't
get the ring until you had so many hours 90 say 95 now
but back then uh i don't remember his 95 or what it
was of course we took a lot more hours back then But
you did not wear it in your uniform as a junior. It
was a senior privilege to wear the Aggie ring. And I
also remember, speaking of the Aggie ring, I have
what's called the old Army ring, as we referred to
it. It's the gold, but it's got the dark black
inside it. And now most of the rings you see are the
shiny rings. Well, we only had one person. I
remember when I was in school, took ammonia and it
seems like cleaned it out. But now this ring is not
the popular ring. And yours cost how much? I can't
remember. My boots or my ring, I bought used boots.
One was 30 and one was 60, but it was not. And where
did you get that money?
Two or three times I went over, and I can't remember
if I did it for either one of those, but I went over
and took a short-term loan out at the YMCA, and you
had a period of time to pay them back, and they
wanted you to give a dollar maybe if you borrowed
$30 or $50, whatever. A lot of times if you're going
to Houston for a court trip, you go over and get $25.
But they didn't pressure you to pay anything back
other than what you borrowed, but it was kind of
customary you try to come up with another dollar.
And in terms of your college expenses, did your
family pay that or did you earn some of it? My family
helped. I worked every summer except when I went to
summer camp in the oil field, and so I paid a pretty
good portion of mine. I never had an automobile. I
could have, but I never did ask my father for one
because there were other people that had them. As
you recall, about how much did a year at A&M cost you
then? You know, it's really, really terrible. I
don't remember. That's where I'm going to say
again, when you talk to Bo and I'll introduce you to
him, he can tell you exactly. Do you have any senior
ring stories? Lost it or somebody somewhere at
some exotic place spotted you, spotted an Aggie
ring? Well, I think, of course, from spending 21
years in the military, you ran into a lot of other
Aggies. And I'm one of these guys that I always
watch for the ring. And whether we're in Houston or
wherever, we'll continue to try to see one. And
I'll talk to a fence post, as my kids say. But I think
most of the stories that you could tell is once you
spot one, you start talking. I know an Aggie story.
I was stationed at West Point in 65 when I was going
to get out. The colonel talked me into extending
six months that was our battalion commander, and I
went up there. He was a West Pointer, and I went up
there, and I worked for a lieutenant colonel that
was out of Fort Campbell, Kentucky for the summer
named Glenn Mitchell, an Aggie. And then after I
had...
gotten about halfway through the career course,
I'd pretty well decided I was going to get out of the
Army the next year, and I went up to Washington,
D.C. because we had the Friday off to go visit
Branch, and walked into my assignment officer was
Glenn Mitchell, Lieutenant Colonel now, and he
was a major when I worked for him. Well, he sent me to
A&M to teach ROTC, so a small world there, you know,
how your life turns around because of this one
Aggie. But just I think the important thing I could
say about being an Aggie, especially in the
military, when you went in, there was a reputation
that was there that Aggies do well. And I think when
you first start off, it's kind of like graduating,
or it was then, graduating from West Point. You
started off a step ahead of the other lieutenants
because, and of course you had had the experience,
the summer camp experience and everything else,
which was a little bit more enhanced at summer camp
because of your previous corps life and
everything. any people treasure their senior
ring as much or more than any other institution.
And the diploma, I think the diploma too and
everything, you know. Why is that ring compared to
most Hey, it's hard to say, and you've been over
here, and you know when we give out rings, and we
might give out 3,000 rings. Let's say, let's drop
the number to 2,300 like we gave her out the other
day. It is amazing. You will be sitting there for
three hours handing them out, and young ladies
just go crazy. young men until you say something
well I think that might be a keeper what do you think
something and then you'll get that gleam in their
eye but to every student it is it is important and I
think they've feel they've earned it, but I think
all of a sudden they think they're joining the
brotherhood or the sisterhood or something. And
it's just the one respected thing that you can
probably put right up there with religion. It's
hard to explain. I, as an outsider, think one of the
keys is that it has changed so little in design so
that it is a unifier through the years,
and whether you're a civilian or a corps or whether
you major in this, that, or the other, it pulls
everybody together. You can start right there
with the picture of the guy right there. They met in
his room when he was a cadet and came up with the
design for the ring. And that was before the turn of
the century. And the
ring has changed very little. You do see where the
Eagles faced a different direction about three
different times. But the class of 30, of course,
had the stone in it. And if you go to the core center,
you'll find a 29. The quick war story I'll tell you,
I never got to kush or desert for a couple of weeks
because I didn't know which class had the stone,
and somebody told me to go see Mr. Gay. I went to see
him, and he picks up the phone and calls Rutter,
who's the vice president that year, and all I could
think was those sophomores are going to kill me.
And he said, he didn't know, but he said, call Lou.
And then Mr. Gay called Lou, and Lou told him his
class of 30. Well, later when I was running the
course center, I had one of the stone, ruby red type
stones come in in a ring that said 29. And I couldn't
understand that because I had talked to Mr.
Halbooty, who was the editor of the Longhorn, the
yearbook in 30. And he had said that was the first
year and then we found out it was from Harvey
Striegler over here in admissions and his father
had been a transfer student laid out a semester and
he ordered his ring in 1930 but he was originally
class 29 so but that with that one exception that
year the ring has been basically the same uh senior
boots you bought used And you paid, you think, $30?
$30 seemed like what I paid, and the advantage of
that, my roommate had new boots, and he had to shine
the heck out of them. Mine had probably been around
20 years, and all you had to do was put a little
polish on them, and it'd really shine. And did you
pass them on? I passed them on to someone for the
same price. I remember just like Midnight's, the
juniors that we wore, I remember selling mine to
Gary Halter when he was a class behind me. And they
were? were all the boots the same color then no but
uh we didn't have the uh really really uh dark boots
that you the riding boots that you see everywhere
else they were most all of them were a mahogany or a
red or some but there were different different
versions and you wore them officially the first
time i probably the first time we wore them well we
didn't wear them we didn't wear them except
football games parades You just didn't wear them
to class. You know, that was, that was considered.
Final review. Oh, that was, you were king of the
mountain, you know, and not only that about the
boots, but, but there were so many privileges that
went with that. You could walk on grass anywhere.
You could walk anywhere you wanted, which may
sound kind of corny, but it was a, Did anybody
special for you come that junior year when you went
through final review? No one. My family came down
when I graduated final review my senior year, but
not my junior. How did you feel then, that year? Oh,
I think I felt, you know, good from the standpoint
that, of course, they came down my senior year, but
I still had a year to graduate. They came back again
when I graduated and was commissioned. Was the
weather good for final year? It was good, except my
freshman year, and I don't know if there's ever
been a time in the last... 60 years that final
review was canceled, but it was canceled in 1959.
And if you look at the 1959 Aggieland, you'll see
the drill field underwater. We became sophomores
up against the wall, standing at attention. And
I'll never forget the sophomores said, they
referred to us now as pissheads. They said,
pissheads, hit your hole. In other words, get out
of the hall. We're going to play hall hockey.
That's a junior privilege. And we still laugh
about it because all we could do is now we could
leave the light on. We could walk outside. So if
they were playing hall hockey, you walk outside
and walk back in. And you could wear your hat in the
house, so you could put the hat on, look in the
mirror, and you put on a different black belt. But
the other thing we did my freshman year that was
very, very important, after final review, all the
freshmen had to carry matches. And you had to have
one more than your age, I think it was, or
something. And we all went down to the corner of
Dorm 2. And we had a gathering, and we had a little
bonfire. We burned all the matches. And final
review was not postponed, but was literally
canceled. And it took them a good while to cancel it
because it just kept raining and raining and
raining. And we were in dorm two waiting.
Nowadays, I think they'd have it in pouring down
rain.
Commencement. Why are A&M commencement special?
Oh, they're definitely special or you wouldn't
see like the one the other day. It's like trying to
explain a lot of the other things. It's a payback. I
think it's a payback to the parents because the
smiles and they're always seem to be so happy to be
back here. And the students are proud of this place
and it's just obvious. But I think when we had
meetings a few years ago and we were talking about
senior finals, should seniors take finals, the
other side of the coin was that should they have
diplomas in the tube. Because a lot of people felt
it would be a lot easier to just mail them to them.
And I'll never forget one of the students telling a
professor when he said, well, at other schools,
they just mail them and they don't have all this
work. And the young girl said, sir, we're not
another school. And so it's the same way with
graduation now. I know with my son just graduating
nearly two weeks ago, to see the majority of the
students there for graduation and to see their
parents there, it's unbelievable. And some of
them spent a lot of money coming, and everybody is
important. When you graduated, how many were
there to see you graduate? From my family, only my
father and my stepmother. Who else was there? I
think that most of the people, most of the people in
my outfit had had family members come and had aunts
and uncles, especially if you were from Fort
Worth, Dallas, Austin, where it was driving
distance. Motels just didn't exist. It was really
tough. You, it kind of goes back to a lot of the other
things we were talking about. You knew a professor
that you got to know, and I know that my family, the
last stop we made leaving town was out at Mr.
Penberthy's house because he was like a godfather
to me, you know, here. And your name was called,
your hand was shaken, and
you received your diploma. In other words, it
wasn't a piece of paper. With my name on it, mm-hmm,
and the degree. Did anybody attempt any kind of
pranks or hijinks at commencement? No, I don't
remember anything. We had commissioning also,
and I don't remember anything. I don't remember
the people writing things on top of their hats.
There might have been.
I just remember, of course, I remember final
review. which was very interesting because we
always had the whooping and the yelling when
they'd say pass and review. Otherwise, it was
pretty military up until that time. And of course,
it seemed like we always had a lot of people passing
out because it was so hot and a lot of them had been
out drinking. And I'd be surprised if you remember
the name of the commencement speaker. Most people
don't. Commencement, I don't, but I think General
Cassidy was the commissioning speaker.
commencement speaker, I don't remember. And I
should because I've heard that mentioned so many
times. At that point, how well did you feel A&M had
prepared you for your future? Oh, I felt very
secure about going into the military because we'd
been to summer camp and we had done so well And I
think we'd gotten a lot of additional training
here, and you knew at that time the military
situation in the world was changing, and I may have
been different. But it's kind of like I said, I'd
worked five summers in the oil field, and I was kind
of looking forward to the thought of seeing
something outside of Jack County, because I had I
was 30 years old before I ever saw the Alamo, so
that's hard to believe you could have come to
school here at A&M. Were you the first in your
family, first generation in your family to
graduate from college? I was the first to
graduate, yes. And at the time you got your A&M
degree, what did you think you were going to do
professionally? Well, I thought that I would go
into the service and I was going to go back and work
with my daddy who ran cattle and we had a lot of goats
and I just planned on going back to Jacksonville. I
had no intentions of staying in. No, and if I hadn't
have been stationed at West Point, I went up there
and It extended six months, and then I volunteered
to go to Vietnam. And so then the next thing I knew, I
spent 31 of the next 40 months in Nam, and came back
here, taught ROTC, and met my wife in graduate
school. And then all of a sudden, the military,
here I'd been in 10 years, and the military all of a
sudden was probably the best decision I could
make. Of course, stay in, because. All right, look
back now over your life. and interpret it in terms
of what you now realize that a m did to prepare you
for that life how well did a m prepare you and in what
ways did they prepare you well well i would like to
go back as when we had our discussion before i wish i
had applied myself better academically when i was
small my uh Mother died when I was young. I was
really raised by my grandmother and so I didn't
have any foundation for academics in high school
at all or you couldn't go back to junior high. So I
wish I had really known how to study or had been
forced to apply myself better not procrastinate
and things like that so I think that that probably
I'd like to start there and but on the other hand is
as your friend McCandless tells me he thinks I
turned out all right considering but the bottom
line is I think that it prepared me more than any
just to deal with people communicate with people
to and to be conscientious now you may not you may
not be the most eloquent person you may not be able
to to do a lot of things other people can do but i
think a m taught you that number one you got a job to
do get the job done but don't step on other people's
toes and if you have a problem there's somebody
that you can ask for help you know and i think i think
when you go back and you start looking at the five
years you were here in school There were a lot of
problems, but there were always solutions, and
there was always somebody. It might have been your
buddy, and it might have been this bonding
together on different projects or different
pranks or whatever. So you're saying, you're
implying that it taught you to be a team player?
Team player. And have faith in yourself, too,
because you can very easily feel that you're not
capable of doing a lot of things, but when you go
through four years of the Corps, where each year
you're forced to take on new responsibilities or,
on the same line, privileges that come with it. Did
it teach you how to judge people? I think it
probably taught you maybe not to judge people as to
judge people, you know, unless you're really sure
about the people. Don't take a quick decision over
something. Judge is not the right word. I used the
wrong word. But you, we came here, we came to Texas
A&M, and the one thing you learned that most of the
people that you dealt with you could trust them or
you knew you couldn't trust them right off the bat
but you learn to give the benefit of the doubt to
people and but you also learned in a hurry if
somebody is the is a all these quickie salesman's
is trying to get over on you or something like any
can you depend on somebody And it was pretty
obvious in my career when I first went in the
military, and you normally would have four or five
lieutenants. Well, it was pretty obvious if these
people could be depended on. Because lots of times
if they're going to cover for you or they're going
to help you on a project, you've got to have their
participation. When I used the word judge, what I
was really trying to phrase was, When you're
trying to evaluate,
to judge, to figure out who you can work with and who
you can't, I'm assuming that A&M taught you that
their last name, where they worship, their
family's income are not important. That's what I
was driving at. Oh, yeah. No question, but I think
back of guys like the average cadet here is going to
room probably with three people, maybe four
people, in a period of four years here. Whereas if
you're a civilian student, chances are you're
going to do the very same thing because you're
going to be living in the dorm, and then you're
going to live off campus. So you deal with a lot of
people. The advantage of the Corps is you just
become very, very close with a large number of
people. In other words, you have a lot of roommates
that may not be sharing the same room with you, But
you're sharing a lot of hours each day together. So
you do get to pretty well look at somebody and say,
well, he's a good guy. He may be rich, may be poor. If
you were a consultant to A&M's leadership now,
What advice would you give them about A&M, what
they should do regarding it to make A&M's future
strong, bright, positive? Well, I would say the
very first thing I would do, I would have a pretty
good group of consultants volunteer type people
that love A&M that can give you advice and be very
very careful don't don't just listen to the one
that yells the loudest on the other hand I think
you've got to sit down and you've got to realize
that just how important and you've talked about
this over and over some of the older ags what they
felt it was like when they were here but but you do
have to have this income If we're going to do 2020
for an example, which we hope we were able to
accomplish everything, but even some of the
majority items there, it's going to take money.
And you don't want to offend someone over some
small tradition or some small area that just
because somebody would have come and said, oh,
that's not important. Well, it might be very, very
important to someone. But I think the...
The only advice I'd really say is get a lot of advice
and then weigh it, but find somebody that you can at
least trust that you can talk with and get their
judgment because those people are around, and a
lot of them are retired. If
you had the financial capability to make a major
gift to A&M, for what purpose would you want your
gift used?
Well, I think if I was giving a major gift to A&M, I
would want it to go to
students that wouldn't exactly be in the needy
category, but students that are really having to
work to come to school. If you could say, you know,
there's some kids pulling down two jobs. If there
was a way you could really know that not based on how
much income this family makes because the family
may have a lot of children. I would want it based on
sophomores that have done fairly well
academically but have a definite need, financial
need, and I wouldn't go back and look at what their
families make or anything like that. Would their
major matter? Their major wouldn't matter. The
hardest thing would be how do you identify these
students? How do you identify that a student
really needs something? we usually say well are
they driving a new car well yeah a lot of kids are
driving new cars that's why a lot of kids are having
to work make these car payments but but i think i
think really we've got the extremes we've got the
kids that make the excellent grades get
scholarships the kids that are needy get
scholarships and i see so many kids that that are in
the middle that are having to having to work their
tails off and they're not able to study although I
will say that my son this last semester carried 18
hours and five of them were in engineering, the
other in economics, and he did very well because he
stayed busy. But it does hinder a lot of kids.
Getting near the end of that, to what former
students, faculty, advisors, to what
individuals as you look back on your student days,
do you feel most grateful and why? Oh, I think I've
talked about the three people that I was fortunate
enough to work for in intramurals. I think the the
professors that I had, and most of them were in the
College of Agriculture, even though they carried
on over into educational psychology, but those
people taught the classes, not, not, I didn't have
a student, or other assistant teaching that class
such as a ta the i had the i had the the professor and i
think and i think most cases we had the professors
in in in my days in nearly all the classes but uh were
there did you have any as a student did you have any
experience that you now know that that experience
was a real fork in the road Well, I think Dr. Potts
put me on probation to go to class. You know, I think
I had been here two years, and I was surprised
anybody even knew I was in school, you know,
really. So that was very... Oh, very, very
beneficial. And I have done that to many, many
cadets that I've caught. I've put them, which I
legally couldn't probably do over in the
Commandant's office, But I put a number of
students on no cut. And I've taught the class how to
succeed in college. And I would always say, you get
one absence in my class, period, period. And I got
away with it. But they came to class because they
understood. Goodness knows what we've
overlooked. I hope we haven't overlooked much.
Well, my last question is, what feelings do you
carry in your heart today for Texas A&M? Well, I
think I carry like most of them do. I think one of the
problems that I have is I live here. I hear
everything and I sometimes think it'd be so nice to
be away from here with just good memories and not
not having to pick up the paper in here and listen to
whether whether it could be a former student
that's upset and if they are all upset they got
email now and you have to listen to everything so I
still think I uh I have the same love for A&M I've
always had. I have a love for the Corps. I just think
that I'm here where I hear too many negatives now
and hear people complaining and griping about
everything. And nearly everything, for an
example, the Faculty Senate does is, I think, is
outstanding because that's why we're here. We're
here for academics. But every once in a while, you
might have a meeting of the whole, or somebody
brings out something. Then your blood starts
boiling again. And then you think. But that can be
over these 700 student organizations, which some
of them you say, why in the world do we have that
organization? But you feel very optimistic about
the future? I feel very optimistic. And as I say, I
think that as long as we continue moving with the
students, being involved like they are, we're in
good shape. And proud and grateful. Proud and
grateful. And as long as the girls stay in the
leadership roles like we've been seeing lately,
it's going to work well. I throw that out not only as
a joke, but there's a lot of truth to it, too. Let's
quit there.